# ai-case-study

# Waabi Driver – The future of Autonomous Trucking

## Overview and Origin
Waabi is a self-driving solution company founded in 2021 by Raquel Urtasun. Waabi offers a self-driving solution known as the Waabi Driver, designed for integration with trucks and aimed at large-scale commercialization and safe deployment, complemented by Waabi World. Waabi's dedication to enhancing roadway safety, improving fuel efficiency, and creating job opportunities underscores their commitment to fostering positive change within society. The idea was developed after Urtasun’s 20 years of experience in AI and leaving Uber’s self-driving unit and seeing the time for transformational change through autonomous driving. Waabi combines cutting-edge AI research with world-class engineering, the Waabi Driver is an end-to-end trainable system that automatically learns from data, speeding up development dramatically and enabling it to learn the complex decision-making needed for operating on the road safely. Waabi is backed by leading investors and advisors from Khosla Ventures, Uber, 8VC, Radical Ventures, Omers, and BDC. Investors of Waabi include Volvo Group Venture Capital, OMERS Ventures, Radical Ventures, Aurora, Geoffrey Hinton and nine more. Waabi has raised $83.45M over two rounds. Waabi's latest funding round was a Series A - II for on January 18, 2023 with a total of 12 investors.

## Business Activities
Waabi’s focus is how to make cars and trucks drive themselves safely, reliably, and efficiently. Trucking is the backbone of our economy, but an acute labor shortage, safety concerns, and the industry’s environmental impact are wreaking havoc on its future. Autonomy will solve many of the industry’s woes, but this promise has yet to be realized. The Waabi Driver combines revolutionary Generative AI-based autonomy stack as software along with sensors and compute as hardware. Together, they form a complete solution designed for factory-level OEM integration, large-scale commercialization, and safe deployment. As Ohnsman stated in Forbes
“Still, there are questions about the company’s future at the moment. Urtasun declined to say which truck makers and trucking companies Waabi will be working with, whether its test trucks will be hauling revenue-generating loads and how soon the system will be available for commercial sale or licensing. Its first trucks will operate in a U.S. state she didn’t name and though Urtasun also wouldn’t say how many it’s testing, three trucks are currently registered to Waabi in San Francisco, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation.” 
Waabi designed their autonomy stack for widespread deployment. Waabi Driver is purpose-built with production intent from day one. It’s adaptable to multiple redundant truck platforms and easily integrated on the assembly line with no disruption. The hardware solution is plug-and-play, lightweight, simple to maintain, and aerodynamic to maximize fuel savings. This all makes the Waabi Driver the most flexible autonomous trucking solution available. They employ multiple sensors such as LiDARs, cameras, and radars for increased redundancy and safety. Leveraging the sensor simulation capabilities within Waabi World, they’re able to streamline sensor selection, integrate the latest technology quickly, and ultimately deliver the most flexible solution for their OEM partners. 
The Waabi Driver boasts superior generalization capabilities so it can safely apply learned skills to unseen scenarios and brand new geographies, without ever having driven there before. These capabilities lay the foundation for safe and scalable operations by unlocking new autonomous trucking routes with unprecedented speed. Waabi’s AI-first approach is empowered by Waabi World, their highly scalable closed-loop simulation engine, built with the latest in Generative AI technologies. Waabi World exposes the Waabi Driver to the vast diversity of scenarios needed to hone its driving skills, including both common situations and safety-critical edge cases. To put that into perspective, it would otherwise take thousands of self-driving vehicles driving millions of miles each to experience these situations on the road. This approach drastically reduces the need to drive in the real world, resulting in a solution that is much more sustainable, and both smarter and safer before the wheels even start turning. On-road driving is primarily reserved for the final step of development: validation and verification. This is a major paradigm shift.

## Landscape
Waabi specializes in the development of autonomous driving technology within the artificial intelligence and transportation sectors. Artificial Intelligence (AI), Autonomous Vehicles, Machine Learning, and Transportation. A key trend shaping the future of autonomous cars is Artificial Intelligence (AI). AI in cars utilizes deep learning technology to continuously improve its performance and make better decisions based on experience, resulting in safer, smoother, smarter, and more efficient rides. Whether it assists the human driver or completely replaces them, AI plays a critical role in improving autonomous vehicles. AI is one of the significant drivers of level-4 and level-5 autonomous vehicle development. Safe and smooth all-weather autonomous driving is projected to push market growth in the sector.
One of the trends that industry players should know is consumers becoming increasingly aware of environmental and safety issues. The demand for emission-free cars continues to rise due to escalating fuel costs and the increasingly negative impact of carbon emissions. Concerning safety, at least 94% of vehicle crashes, and severe traffic accidents occur due to human error, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. AVs can act as a solution to both key problems, possessing electric engines and self-driving autonomous technology that can be safer than human-driven vehicles.
The future of autonomous vehicles will experience all kinds of Advanced Driving Assistance Systems to aid motorists in maximizing driving safety. These electronic systems improve through ADAS development and multiple data sources, including radar, LiDAR, image sensors, and computer vision. Some examples of ADAS include Adaptive Cruise Control, Pedestrian Detection, and Parking Assistance. According to the National Safety Council, ADAS technologies can prevent up to 3 deaths per year, or 62% of total traffic deaths. Competitors of Waabi include Gatik, Embark Trucks, Kodiak Robotics, ISEE AI, Inceptio Technology and seven more.

## Recommendations
I recommend Waabi provide their solutions to robotaxi companies. This will aid in decreased pollution. Waabi would only need to add a platform for users to request the services.

## References
Bellan, Rebecca. “Waabi’s New Simulator Could Scale Autonomous Vehicle Tech Faster.” TechCrunch, 9 Feb. 2022, techcrunch.com/2022/02/09/waabis-new-simulator-could-scale-autonomous-vehicle-tech-faster/.
Hawkins, Andrew J. “Waabi, the Rare Autonomous Vehicle Startup with a Woman CEO, Raises $83.5 Million.” The Verge, 8 June 2021, www.theverge.com/2021/6/8/22522824/waabi-raquel-urtasun-autonomous-vehicle-startup-stealth-funding.
Ohnsman, Alan. “As Doubts Grow over Self-Driving Vehicles, This Ambitious Upstart Rolls out Its First Robot Trucks.” Forbes, www.forbes.com/sites/alanohnsman/2022/11/16/as-doubts-grow-over-self-driving-vehicles-this-ambitious-upstart-rolls-out-its-first-robot-trucks/. Accessed 11 June 2024.
Waabi – the next Generation of Self-Driving Technology Starts Here. waabi.ai/.
 “Waabi Could Be Global Leader in Self-Driving Trucking in next 6-12 Months: Founder.” Www.bnnbloomberg.ca, 13 Dec. 2023, www.bnnbloomberg.ca/video/waabi-could-be-global-leader-in-self-driving-trucking-in-next-6-12-months-founder~2828082. Accessed 11 June 2024.

